Hello everybody.
I'm Rhonda Strahton.
I'm the director of
QuickTime Product Marketing.
Welcome to this nice early session.
Thank you all for coming.
I think you probably all have started
to attend enough of our sessions
in the QuickTime content creation
track to know that usually someone
from Apple does the introduction,
so that's me.
And I'll come back for the
Q&A to make sure that if
there's any sort of QuickTime,
you know, features and those kind of
related questions that maybe
I can help Alex with those.
But just wanted to let you know that
we invited Alex to come here and
talk to you about interactivity just
because of the great content that he's
created that we've seen over the years.
He's submitted content to
the design awards that is,
you know, done very well.
And we thought it would be great to
have him come and talk to you about
the things that he creates and how
he creates them and the things he's
learned about working with QuickTime.
So without any further discussion,
I would like to introduce
Alex Ogle from Tubb Atomic Studios.
Thank you.
Well, good morning.
I want to thank you
all for having me here.
Before we do start,
I do want to say that if you
think of any questions during
my speech and while I'm talking,
just feel free to remember those
and let's get some good Q&A towards
the end about interactive QuickTime.
I just don't want you to be hit at
the end and there's the Q&A and you
haven't thought about any questions.
Definitely keep that in mind while
I'm going through everything.
My name is Alex Ogle.
It's basically interactive
design and I'm a partner in
a business called Tub Atomic.
Our company focuses on providing
solutions to clients and very diverse
basic clients like anybody from
say a manufacturer of automobile
tires to an independent music label.
While doing that, we've always used
QuickTime in production.
In 2001, we actually started using
QuickTime for interactivity,
which back then was pretty
new and interesting.
We were playing around doing skin
designs and things like that that
were kind of pushing the envelope
and having a lot of fun with that.
I'd just like to definitely thank
everybody for having me here
and glad to see the turnout.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing I'd like to
do is just kind of go overview
what I want to talk about,
and that is what is interactive
QuickTime and kind of why you should
consider using interactive QuickTime,
what tools are available for creating
interactivity inside of QuickTime,
and relevant ways to use interactive
QuickTime on the web and other places,
and then techniques for
designing interactive QuickTime.
and the next step is
to do the same thing.
Let's go ahead and get
started on the first question,
which is, what is interactive QuickTime?
And that's a very simple answer.
It's not only the QuickTime file, which,
you know, is, you know,
Well known.
If you look at VR tracks and everything,
those are natively interactive.
I'm not really going to
talk about that so much.
I'm going to really focus on where you
can use interactivity and how you use
it is displayed within QuickTime Player.
inside the browser using plugins and
then other compatible applications
like Director and other things
like that that use QuickTime.
But, each one of these has their own
kind of possibilities for use.
In QuickTime Player you have like
skins and you can really brand
things and it's interesting.
And you can jump right out of
the browser window with it.
The actual browser plugin you
can actually have like inside the
windows you can use wired sprites
and wired movies that can talk to
each other and you can reuse like
Interactive controllers that can be
branded and then they can use all
your media right away and you can just
kind of make them talk to each other.
So that's kind of an advantage
to using the plug-in over
necessarily going to a player.
Let's go to the next one,
which is why use
QuickTime for interactivity?
Well, it's cross-platforming and goes
from Mac to PC very easily.
QuickTime is really good about
keeping up on having published the
same version for both platforms.
So you don't have to worry
about if you make it for Mac,
you know, the PC version is not out yet,
don't worry about that.
It usually comes out
very seamlessly together.
It's also important to remember that,
let's say you're doing viral content,
like you have a movie that you
want to share with your friends,
and then you want it to spread
out and network and keep going.
Well,
you don't want it to go to a Mac user
and then to go to a PC user and have
it just kind of stop and not move on
because that person didn't get to see it.
And with this,
you get one file that can do both.
Let's say you do a Flash document
or something like that,
and you export and publish it into
an EXE file and a Mac projector file.
And so you send that out.
Well, which one are you going to send?
You know,
it can only go out to a specific
group and that kind of thing.
So what this does is give you
the advantage to keep bouncing
and going further and further
with your viral content.
And the whole viral thing
started like a couple years back.
And it's-- It's kind of a key phrase,
the thing that everybody's
been throwing around,
but it still is very interesting
and does create a lot of awareness
of your movies and your products
and interesting things like that.
And then Flash 5 support.
Flash 5 really broke ground
when we were using Flash 4.
I remember when it came out.
It came out around 2001.
We were very excited about that.
We were like, "Wow, we can use all this.
We can use a lot of variables and we
can do all these different things."
It was a big advancement over 4.
It had some different compression
things and audio and stuff like that.
It's very powerful.
Some of the greatest
sites are made in that.
You can see some very interactive
things like database-driven Flash sites.
It's extremely powerful.
It is an older version of Flash,
but because it is older,
you have more resources.
It's almost an advantage.
A lot of times when we
publish Flash content,
we actually try to play back to
plug-ins that people will typically
have because maybe they haven't quite
updated to the newest Flash plug-in,
things like that.
We actually publish older
versions and things like that.
Being able to have Flash 5 content
is like when Flash 5 came out.
If we would have had somebody say, "Well,
you can just do a custom skin
around your Flash 5 content,"
we would have freaked out.
We would have been like,
"That's the greatest thing ever."
We have that ability now with
QuickTime and it's kind of
an exciting thing to do that.
Using Flash 5 really isn't
a hindrance necessarily.
You should definitely
take advantage of that.
There are so many people that know
Flash and Action Scripting and all this.
It's a great ability to simply
jump in to creating QuickTime and
interactivity inside of QuickTime.
You can use resources, information,
tutorials and things you find
all over the place to get into
creating your activity very easily.
A lot of people have Flash because
we're talking about people that develop
content for clients and things like that.
Flash is a very common thing.
It's almost like Photoshop.
You have Photoshop and
Flash definitely in your studio
and you're using those every day.
Of course you have
QuickTime on your machine.
The marriage of everything
together is just so seamless.
Then we have the same file
can be used on a CD and a web.
Now,
we've all gotten DVDs and CDs and things
where somebody's tried to take their
website and put it onto a DVD as extras,
or onto a CD because
it's a band or something,
and they've just taken their content.
Well,
if that content's like database-driven,
it's very difficult to move that over.
And using QuickTime,
what you can do is if you make
the whole website or something,
inside of QuickTime,
it's very easy to move that file
and launch it directly from a CD or
a DVD and have that content be
used the same on both platforms,
the web or CD or whatever.
What that does is means you create
one thing and then it can be reused,
which is great and clients love
that because we don't have to keep
building and charting more and more.
Seamless leap from a browser is
just kind of an obvious thing.
I mean, all players do that, right?
You click on a media file,
it launches into a player,
you see it and that's it,
and you close the media
file and you go back.
Well, a seamless leap is like,
is amazing in this case,
because you're talking
about interactivity.
So you could literally take and build an
entire website inside of this and have a
launch page in HTML that basically just
has an embedded QuickTime file in it.
That QuickTime file calls the other file
and launches it right in to the player,
and then you have a whole
site built right there.
And so that's a completely
interesting concept,
and with being able to move the
files around everything to a CD,
it really opens up some
doorways that you can't really
get with other media players.
And of course,
then you have attached media skins,
which is way different
than other players also,
in that we've seen MP3 players
and different things like that
where you can skin the program
and have different interfaces,
but it's always the same interface.
I mean, you're basically a play button,
a stop, a fast forward,
that kind of thing.
And so what this does is it
allows you to mix in your own
interactivity into an attached skin,
so that you basically have greater
ability to make people understand
where you're coming from and
remember your brand and your
logo and that kind of thing.
And that brings us to branding,
which is like the key terminology
when you're talking about QuickTime,
in that you can really brand your
content and make people remember
and stand out from other people,
and that it's...
In design,
when you're talking to clients,
they always want, "Well,
we want our logo the same.
We have this big,
thick book of standards where if
you don't use the logo the same
exact way over and over and over,
they won't use it or something.
They'll keep making you force this
manual." When you brand across all these
different things like business cards
and brochures and websites and CDs,
having this one seamless thing that
you can use and then having skins that
you can cut and continue that branding
across that place and not be locked
into a square is quite a powerful thing.
Let's talk about some of the tools.
Of course, you have Live Stage Pro,
which is like the Photoshop of
interactivity inside QuickTime.
It's the standard.
Everybody that does any kind of
professional interactivity uses that.
There's a good reason,
because it is probably the most powerful
tool for creating interactivity and
writing scripts and things like that,
which we'll get into.
Also,
we should cover a few others just to
make sure we're being equal to everybody.
Of course, Live Stage Pro is also
done by Totally Hip,
which does Live Stage Pro and
Live Slideshow.
Anyway,
that's kind of a lower-end program,
and not so professionally used,
but it still adds quite a
few abilities and things,
so I wanted to show it up there.
Then you have QTI and MoviePlanet.
MovieWorks, Deluxe,
which are strong programs
that can create great content.
Then you have Flash,
which can export out MOV files.
Like I said earlier,
it's a tremendous resource,
because so many people
already know Flash.
Then you have shareware
applications like Tattoo,
which I think costs
like $23 or something.
You can go to the studio and
everybody's using it already.
You can simply go and buy a small
application like Tattoo and get your feet
wet and start playing around with that.
I'll go through a short example of
how to play with those simple things
and get a project going where we
show how easy it is just to create
something from what knowledge you
probably already have by using Flash.
Then there's Go Live.
It kind of shocked me when
I first saw it actually.
I don't actually use
Go Live in my studio,
but I use BBEdit for most of my
HTML writing and things like that.
It's interesting that they put
so much QuickTime Interactivity
inside of Go Live,
but I wouldn't really recommend to
go out and buy Go Live if you're
just going to do interactivity.
It's something if you
already have and you're doing
WYSIWYG editing inside of it,
then you can jump right in
and start embedding files.
It's a really great tool for that.
Then there's a component
download program called Axle.
You know,
I haven't mentioned any other component,
really, applications,
but this program is amazing.
I mean, when I first saw this thing,
I was like, it was like when I saw
Flash for the first time.
It was like, wow,
I can't believe that's inside QuickTime.
And it really adds so many features,
and there's some other 3D application
software out there like Axle,
but I think Axle's kind of
leading the way right now.
And
The possibilities for what we can really
do with it are just kind of open-ended.
I mean, I can't wait to see the content
that really comes out from what we,
in the future, from what we see with what
the capabilities are for Axon.
So let's talk about a
little bit of QScript,
which is kind of the standard
language for writing in LiveStage Pro,
which I'm sure if anybody here has ever
created anything inside of QuickTime or
interactivity sort of things,
that they probably have written some
QScript because it is kind of the
standard and everybody kind of likes it.
So it's important to
remember where QScript lives,
and that's kind of what
I'm trying to show here,
is that
It's too small.
Anyway, you can see the highlighted
key press there.
And so if we type into, like,
the dialog box over here on the right,
you can type in your cue script there,
and it gets applied to the key press,
which means that if that action happens,
then it runs a script.
So you can see kind of like some of
the idle and all that kind of things,
those track events that you can have
happen that can execute your cue script.
So that's kind of where it lives.
It lives on different tracks
and happens when events happen.
So anybody that doesn't know
anything about cue script,
that's kind of a basic
outline of how it's used.
I want to show this because it shows
some of the track layouts from what
you work with inside of QuickTime.
You have a flash track, a sprite track,
a movie track, and then a skin track.
All these different tracks
have attributes and abilities.
What you do is you layer
them on top of each other.
They communicate,
but can pass variables and do
all these different scripts.
You can attach scripts to most of them.
Probably the sprite track is the most
capable as far as attaching scripts.
Flash is great because you can pull
in variables and sprite tracks can
look at them and so on and so forth.
But we also, you can kind of nose around
on other people's files,
which is kind of fun to do.
If you open up somebody's QuickTime file
and it's a skin player or anything,
you can kind of go down to,
if you have QuickTime Pro,
you can go down to edit and go to
enable tracks and look at that and
you kind of get a little dialog
box that tells you the track names.
So you can kind of look through and
see if they changed the names or if,
you know, how many movie files are
actually there track-wise.
It kind of gives you like
a little insight into how
other people make their files.
So it's kind of fun to nose around.
So then we get to TrackTypes.
These are some of the track types.
I don't know if I got every
single one of them there,
but in live stages,
these are typical ones you'd make:
sprite track, picture track, text, flash,
movie, VR, sound, color, skin,
and then effects tracks.
And then you have the components,
which actually add
capability to the QuickTime.
And these are the interactive ones.
Well,
what I would call the interactive ones.
Obviously there's codecs and things
that are part of the component
downloads too which add capabilities.
But these add basically
functionality and logic.
iPix is kind of like VR.
I don't think I've ever seen anything
done in iPix inside of QuickTime,
but it's there.
And then Zoomify is kind of an
interesting product where you
can zoom in and use big images
and it kind of redraws them.
So it's a very interesting product
which I haven't gotten used
to yet in anything commercial,
but I'm kind of looking forward to
trying to figure out ways to use it.
Pulse,
which was kind of big several years ago,
but I don't think they're really
doing anything in QuickTime right now.
I'm not sure what's going on in there.
And then Axle,
which is a 3D kind of rendering engine.
And Pulse and FBX are kind
of the same kind of deal.
I mean they're 3D rendering
inside of QuickTime in real time.
So Axle I think has probably,
in my opinion, the best interface,
the best ability for
programming and really,
I don't know,
it just seemed very intuitive.
I just really liked it.
Okay, now we get to relevant ways.
The relevant ways are,
and this is only four,
but I think it's the big four.
Full websites,
which I think we're going to see
more of because it's so nice to be
able to have that ability to brand.
Branded media players,
which are kind of the
obvious thing to do,
to add functionality, which are great,
but I think our scope is
kind of limited there.
I think we could go beyond
that into regular websites.
I would love to just see somebody
doing a lawyer's office site or
something like that inside of QuickTime,
because I think that would be
really a breaking of a standard,
or maybe an ice cream shop that
doesn't have any kind of media files.
But it's just interesting because you
can brand it with the skin and show text.
And so I think what that does
is that opens up kind of a--
[Transcript missing]
Then you have options.
I say options,
but I really mean ideas and
thinking that you can really do
inside your interactive QuickTime.
You can have database-driven information.
One of the great things there
is that people often used to,
when we did Flash content and
very expanded websites there,
they were always like, "Ah,
we'll never be able to update it
though." We started doing interactive
Flash with database-driven content,
which
We were doing that in Flash 5 too,
so we have that capability
in QuickTime very easily.
You're not necessarily
limited to pulling in XML,
which I'll show a little later.
I'm going to show some
examples using load variables,
which is a really standard way
to pull in some text from text
documents or a database or something.
There's photo galleries,
which we're seeing already.
Photo galleries technically could
be a slideshow or maybe pulling in a
bunch of images and showing those and
being able to create it dynamically.
I think we'll probably see more of those.
I'd like to see an artist do
a website with their work and
just make it real dynamic where
they could upload some files and
QuickTime could automatically spot them.
We see that a lot.
We see that kind of
with the movie industry.
We see photos of the sets
and things like that,
which is great, but I still think it
could be used a lot more.
Contact form, which in Flash,
one of the greatest things about
Flash is you can embed fonts and
do color and things like that
really easily inside of that.
You could see contact forms.
Our standard on websites,
so you're not like have to put an
email link that's going to do a
mail to or something like that.
You could easily do a contact
form which hits a database or hits
a server side script and fires
off an email through the server,
that kind of thing.
Email friend works the same way.
You could email the player or email
A link using a server,
which was kind of an interesting idea.
Multiload progressive movies.
Now this is something I did
and I thought it was kind of
an advancement when I did it,
but it still could go a long ways.
But what you can do is like
say a user is viewing content,
right?
And they--
They want to click on a movie trailer
or a video for a band or something,
and they click on it
and it starts to load.
Well, if you're inside the
player inside of QuickTime,
or even if it's an embedded movie,
you could still do this, you could
You can have them be able to click
out and still view content which
could be dynamically driven like tour
dates for a band and stuff like that.
What you have there is the potential to,
instead of going to a page where
you see a little progress bar start
and if they hit back to go view
something while it's downloading,
It can just load in the background.
What you can do is with multiple movies,
you can say,
"I want to see these four videos,"
and you click on them all,
and they all start downloading,
and they all have percents,
and they're analyzing how much is going.
You can sit there and go through
a shopping cart or something,
which is the next thing,
which you can buy merchandise while
you're sitting there watching or
waiting for the downloads to happen.
Those possibilities are there inside
of Interactivity inside of QuickTime.
And for the shopping cart,
at first I think people were kind
of resistant to this kind of theory,
but I've always kind of thought,
you know,
It's kind of an interesting concept,
but if you move,
if you collect information, like in,
and we're only talking
about Shopping Cart here,
so we're collecting like,
let's say a guy wants to order like
four ball caps and two t-shirts,
you know,
so he types it in and it basically
keeps that number inside of
QuickTime until he hits checkout.
And then when he hits checkout,
we go to a secure form on a web page,
you know, so that it's,
so we're not really
breaking any ground there.
I mean, we're just collecting
data inside of QuickTime.
Then we're passing it on.
And, I mean,
if anybody catches the data between
QuickTime and the secure page,
it doesn't really matter because it's
just like somebody's blank order.
I mean, he's not logging in
or anything like that.
So that's an option that's,
that I can see really catching
on with people that are doing
movies and things like that.
And then we have chat, which is,
I've seen that before, where people,
and you can do that in
Flash pretty easily,
and you can use that same
concept from Flash 5.
inside of QuickTime.
Then we have the 3D gaming
or interface design.
Being able to use Axle or one of
the other 3D components is... doing
3D gaming and doing 3D interfaces
could really be the next leap
for what we see in QuickTime.
I'm really inspired and can't wait
to see what happens with that.
Then we have admin applications, which
When you think of updating a website,
typically what you'll have is a
front end and you'll go into it
and it'll have all the information,
and then if you're the admin,
you can log in and you can
alter that information.
Well, usually the back end is different
looking from the front end.
I've kind of always thought
that's kind of weird because
I want to see my text wrapping.
I want to see the accurate font usage.
I want to see everything that's exact
to the front end with the back end.
And you kind of get
that with Contribute 2.
You can go in,
a client can log in and then
basically edit the information
right there and he sees the fonts,
everything is accurate.
But with QuickTime,
you can do the same thing.
You can create the same file
with the capabilities of,
like, if you wanted to update text,
you could have a flash
track with editable text.
You could have text regions and
that kind of thing where they could
click on it and alter the text.
And they'll see the font right
there because it's embedded.
And then you could add just a
small button down there inside
the QuickTime file that says
update to the database and it
can shoot that information off
and change the actual page.
And all you'd have to do is put
that file behind a secure area
on a server or something like
that to make it security issues.
So now we are to the examples,
which is the fun stuff.
I'm going to start with
the beginning project,
which is basically using
three applications,
besides paper and a pencil.
You use Photoshop as the comp,
then we're going to do a little
We're going to do Flash track.
We're going to build it in there.
And we're going to pretty much
do all our interactivity there,
but slightly a little bit more in Tattoo,
which is the cheap application.
So basically this is kind of a
something you can just go back.
I mean, if you're working in a studio or
you have Flash or in Photoshop,
you can just do this.
I mean,
it's really easy to make a website.
So let's start the project.
And here's my little sketch.
And that perspective
is just from the photo.
It's not from what I'm
going for with the look.
And so basically what we're going
to do there is up in the top right,
we're going to do an exit button,
which is pretty typical.
And this is just going to be
like a generic website look.
And then we're going to do a logo,
and then we're going to do like
a horizontal menu there with
home and products and about
us and that kind of thing.
This is typically what you
would just do and whip out for a
client that wanted a small site.
And then we're going to do copyright
information and text blocks in
the middle that have the text.
So we take that sketch and we
kind of mock it up in Photoshop.
And so we got the, like I said,
the right exit button.
We got the simple menu system
and the logo's going to be up
there and that kind of thing.
And so our section title's
going to be like contact us,
about us, products and home.
That's going to change.
And then our content there
would be provided by the client,
so we just kind of type something.
At the same time,
typically when we design
a skin and a layout,
we'll also, in that same file,
do a simple mask.
The mask, everything where it's black
is going to be shown through.
We just create that little thing,
and that's how it's going to be cut out.
And then we do the drag mask,
which is obviously where the
cursor can actually grab stuff.
So you want to make sure
your buttons aren't covered.
I mean, I've had people that I've
explained kind of how to do this
real simple to do it and then
not uncover the buttons in Flash,
and they're clicking on it going,
"Why is my buttons not working?" It's
because you didn't like uncover it.
So that's a good thing to keep in mind.
Sometimes people spend days
just clicking on something,
going, "I can't figure it out.
The scripts aren't working." And then,
okay, the...
The theory is,
and normally I don't even sketch this up,
but this is just for you guys
so I can show you how the
thought process is going.
We're going to do a Flash movie.
So we're going to create this in
Flash and we're going to export it out.
And it's going to be the same
canvas height and everything
of our Photoshop comp,
but without the top layer.
Because one thing inside of like
a tattoo is that you can't like,
the Flash file is going
to have to be on top.
And so if we have a sprite
that's going to be on in there,
this is an exit button.
It's going to not show up
because it's underneath.
If we put Flash in the background,
it doesn't function correctly.
It's important to remember that you have
to leave some space and then create a
sprite for the exit button and then a
sprite for the background that you're
going to have not fill in with the
Flash document because it's shorter.
Then you're going to have the skin track.
Basically, it's going to be four tracks.
And so here we're cutting out the
Photoshop comp with the header,
which is the background of
where the exit button is.
And while we're doing this,
we're kind of measuring, like in pixels,
how far we're going with everything.
So we can recreate when
we do our flash document,
the exact height and everything of
just the bottom portion of the comp.
And then we have the exit button,
which will cut that out.
And we kind of leave a little room.
We don't go right up to exit
because we want the cursor to be
able to have a little play there.
You don't want to go real tight with
your exit button because people will
click around it and not quite hit it.
Just kind of a courtesy thing.
And then we have, we go to Flash,
which means we take the Photoshop comp
and we paste it into the
The actual timeline,
which we can export that out as
PNG or JPEG or whatever and do that.
And basically what we're going
to do here is we're going to
recreate the Photoshop comp,
because we don't want to use images.
I mean, a lot of stuff is just
gradients and things.
We can just recreate it in
vector form inside of Flash.
And so we set our time canvas
up and we set our frame
rate and that kind of thing.
And we start recreating it.
And what we-- And here's a real simple
basic preloader because we're going--
say we're going to put this on the Web.
Since QuickTime is progressive,
you don't necessarily have to analyze
the amount of information being
downloaded and everything like that.
What you can do is in the main
timeline of Flash-- and in Flash,
if you're familiar with it,
you can have multiple movies
and movies and movies,
so it kind of goes down in a hierarchy.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to create two frames basically,
a frame one and a frame five.
And those are where our action
script on our main timeline is
going to just work and live.
And so on the first frame,
we're going to have a play action
just in case they have autoplay
turned off or something inside of
QuickTime because that is a preference.
And you got to be careful about
that because we don't want them
to sit there in a loading loop.
And then we're going to have frame five,
we're going to say stop.
And in Flash,
the-- the actual QuickTime player
will react to whatever scripts
are in the main timeline of Flash.
But they won't necessarily-- I mean,
you can't stop the playhead
necessarily inside of a lower Flash--
or inside of a lower movie instance.
So you can't really go-- if you put a
stop inside a movie that's in a movie,
it's not going to stop the main timeline.
So this is where we
need to keep the script.
And then everything else,
you'll notice in the frame five
there where the playhead is.
Is that the logo, the buttons, the text,
everything,
those key frames are in frame five.
So before frame five,
what we have is just--
Well, here's my play script.
And what we have is a loading animation
with just that little loading thing.
It's just blinking.
And that's a movie we just created,
and it just sits there
and runs in a loop.
And so what will happen is, hopefully,
is that when the user goes to the site,
they're going to see this loading
loop that says loading until
they get the site to come up.
And so we try and keep our amount of
memory that we're using and everything
down low in the first loading loop
so they can see that right away and
wait for the process to complete.
And that works because of
the progressive download.
Because once QuickTime can play
all the way to frame five and stop,
It's loaded because all our
content begins in frame five.
Basically, the preloader is set there
in frame one because when you
view a QuickTime file online,
you see the little progress bar go
and it'll play up to the point in
the frames of where you can view.
It's a very simple
looping system that way.
Here it is.
Here's the loading.
There it is once we get to frame five.
That's the concept we're going for.
We're going to keep all our content.
You could throw photos
and everything in there.
It would actually load in that loop
form until it can actually make it.
This is before we put our skin
applied to it so we can actually
see the process of what's going on.
Alright, so then we open Tattoo,
which again, it's $23,
so it's not much of an
investment to play with.
And so,
I kind of like it because it's so simple.
I can explain it quick to people and
they get it and they can start doing it,
especially if they're
Flash designers and they have no
background in doing QuickTime.
I can give it to them and say, "Here,
do this and this and this," and they just
immediately jump in and start building.
It's kind of useful in that,
but it is limited.
If you're going to do anything serious,
definitely go get Live Stage,
but if you want to play around
with some interactivity,
this is an easy way to go.
Now, the upper left-hand side,
we have the setScan, the setMovie,
and the addButton, right?
Well...
I kind of like this even because
this is such a simple workflow
because you can set the skin,
which means when we did our comp,
we exported out say the background or
the masking pictures with the drag mask
and the regular mask in the background.
And so we set the drag mask and
the actual mask up inside of the
skin info box and that's pretty
easy because you can just set
there in view and then set image.
So it's really simple and
easy to add the whole skin.
And then here we are, we're pasting in,
we're hitting set button.
And set button is kind of a
deceiving thing because we can
set sprites and things that way.
So we're actually setting
a background thing.
We're not actually going to,
the background header,
because if we didn't,
it would just show black or white
or whatever the background color is.
But we're actually setting that
up without any actions on it.
So it's a button, but it's not a button
because it has no action.
So it's not going to have a rollover
finger or anything like that or
anything indicating that it's a button.
And so we can use that
kind of as a background.
And then we add the exit button,
which the exit button...
Basically just needs a
simple action added to it.
And why we're using Tattoo is because
we want to add an exit button.
That's really the only
reason we're using it.
And the skin.
But you could still use that just
with QuickTime Pro and using XML.
And so that's, you know,
freely done easily.
And it's listed out how to
do it on Apple's website.
But this makes it easy and quick and you
can get that exit button in there because
you don't want to not do an exit button.
And I think everybody always says, "Wow,
people can just quit or they
can just close the window."
But users don't like that.
They like to see the exit
button and we can't get past it.
So having--using Tattoo in that
way gives you that ability.
And you'll notice down there in
the actions we say close window,
which is kind of funny because of
the gradient that's going over it.
But at the very bottom
you can see close window,
and that's where you set the actions.
And so it's really easy.
I mean, you just click on a
thing and say actions,
close window.
And then we have the actual,
I'm going to show the project.
So I'm going to move to
[Transcript missing]
I mean, you could obviously see how
you could brand that with,
I mean,
you could have a custom cut thing and
then you could have print material that
has a custom cut and you could have,
you could just kind of go
across all the boundaries.
I mean, you could have such branding all
the way across all your materials.
So, it's just amazing what
you can do with that.
And what we did was we set up
a movie clip in there that,
a movie instance that basically moves a
small playhead around with all the text,
which we're going to come
back to that a little,
in a little bit.
Okay.
All right, the next thing,
it actually has two pieces to it,
this example.
And, you
Basically, the first piece is that it's a
little technique I kind of made.
I don't know if anybody
else is using this.
It'd be interesting to find out.
I kind of conceptualized this when
I was doing some stuff because when
I was first starting out in LiveStage,
I was putting all these
actions on the events,
the event tracks, the track events.
And so I kind of got overwhelmed
by putting so many on and trying
to do all this different stuff
and keeping track of which buttons
are which and that kind of thing.
And back then when I was
using LiveStage 3.5,
which is even more difficult to
figure out which buttons are what,
but the
I came up with this concept which
first off we set the global variable.
I don't know if you can quite see that,
but first what we're doing
is we're setting the global
variable and then we're
we're actually pulling,
we're setting the variable from Flash.
So what we're going to do
is we're going to analyze a
variable from the Flash track,
and then we're going to run an
if statement on it just to say,
does action set equal 1?
And if it does,
we're going to do a closed window.
So this is kind of how you can create
a closed window inside of Flash,
but not,
and just reuse this sprite track in your
project because it's running on idle.
So it's just like this guy's
watching the Flash track,
and he's sitting there,
and as soon as it says close, he goes,
close, and it closes.
And so in Flash,
I can just paste this track in there,
and I can create
Flash interactivity and everything,
and all I have to do is say
root variable equals action set,
or action can equal 1,
and then it can close,
and the other track automatically
closes the QuickTime file.
And basically I've done like a...
I have a master sprite track which
has this idle script on there and
just keeps running all the time.
It has 16 different actions.
When I'm making a new
project inside of Flash,
all I have to do is say,
"Action = 3," and I got documented.
As soon as that happens,
my sprite track automatically closes and
I don't have to go into Live Stage and
add functionality or anything.
This is the second part of this.
What I'm adding here is
a smoother way to close.
You saw earlier when
I closed that other file,
it just blinked, it was gone.
From the days of doing
director and everything,
when we exit out,
the professional way to do it was
to have some kind of animation,
or say the address, or say thank you,
or something like that.
And kind of allow the user to exit
the material in a smooth manner
instead of just blinking off.
This is kind of that same concept
but in an interactive QuickTime.
What we're going to do here is
we're going to tell a movie to play
when they click on the exit button.
We're not going to actually
set the action variable or
have it in live stage to close.
So what we're going to do is we're
just going to have an animation
happen on the exit button.
And so in the last
frame of the animation,
What's going to happen
on the exit animation?
When it animates all the way through,
on the very last frame we're
going to say stop for one thing,
just in case the action doesn't work.
You don't want to keep it looping.
Then we're going to say the
root variable action equals 1.
Then
What happens there is that's going
to execute that sprite track and it's
going to close the action at that point.
So it doesn't have to be on a--it's
not really set on the button.
It's set on the animation.
And I'll show you that real quick.
So what we get there is
just an opening animation.
This is a very simple
CD-ROM we did for Warner Bros.
Jazz.
I had some rollovers, it was interesting.
No sound, no video, no anything.
It was just completely used as
an interactive solution that,
I mean, you could have used Flash here,
but we wanted to go QuickTime so
we could actually brand it.
And this was the cover of the CD.
I basically took a photo and just
clipped it out and there's the CD.
So it was a real simple project.
And we did this like two days,
it was easy.
But on the close action,
we wanted to do a little something extra,
and we did do this in two days,
so don't give me a hard
time about this animation.
It's real simple.
Wee!
Okay.
So there we go.
I mean, it clipped right off.
So let's look at that again.
Wee!
There it goes.
The animation is open,
which is just Flash.
And then we close it.
Wee.
Okay.
So you see the difference between saying,
"Okay,
here's my website," and the close it.
It just kind of goes away
like any other application.
You can actually do a little more,
and it's fun,
and it gives a little more feel to it.
And that's just a kind of a professional
polish kind of thing that you would do.
I'm going to go back.
Now we're going to try and
do a little dynamics inside
of-- and this was Flash again.
I apologize if no one wants to hear about
Flash because that's my background and
I think it's just so easy to jump into it
because so many people already know it.
Let's see.
Loading variables.
You don't necessarily
have to pull an XML.
I mean,
that's kind of daunting to some people
because they necessarily don't have
an XML system or they're not really
used to writing an XML document.
But, I mean, if you're a developer,
you probably are.
But if a simpler user, I mean,
you might need something simple.
So you want just a simple text document.
So what load variables will do is it
will pull in and assign variables,
and these are just text,
these variables like strings, and
They're going to just set in
the variables inside of Flash,
and then we're going to display them on
our lower level hierarchy of our text.
And I'll show you how we're
going to try and do that.
Now,
you necessarily don't have to use text.
You can actually use database.
And I'm using PHP and MySQL here,
but you can use anything.
Because any--I mean,
as long as Flash or QuickTime,
the Flash track in QuickTime is
returning with the proper
string format and everything,
you'll be fine.
So it doesn't matter if you're
using ASP or WebObjects or
any of that stuff to do it.
But here we're going to show how
to do it with just a text document.
And so we're going to
call the text document,
and then we're going to
just pull in the variables.
That's easy.
And then we're going to
do the same on approach2,
which we're going to hit the
document in the document.
And the document actually looks
at the database and then feeds
back to the QuickTime file
the proper text information.
So that's a simple concept.
And then this is what the text
document is going to look like.
And this is what my little
demo looks like right now.
Text one, text two, text three,
that kind of thing.
And those are the basic text
that's in that big block.
So we can build all this and then
the client can come to us and say,
"Well,
here's our text finally the day before
we need to publish it." And we can go,
"Okay, paste it in the document and
we're done." We don't have
to go back in to each frame,
is that a flash or inside of
QuickTime and add all that in.
Here is how we're doing the sub,
the movie instance.
We have, you see the headers there?
That is actually the home
Yeah, okay there.
You can actually see we're
highlighting the first header frame.
And you see how Home has a box around it.
That's our little header.
So in each frame we've
labeled what section we're in.
And we're just going to move the playhead
around to move different sections.
Here is a continual frame
throughout all the sections,
which is the text block.
What we're also doing here
is we're using dynamic text.
You can make it out
towards the bottom there.
It says "var text page." That's
just what we're going to set.
That's what sets in the script,
which is the up top frame layer.
Here we are embedding the
fonts into the Flash document.
Then we're going to
export out as QuickTime.
We get this.
Let me go run over
there and show you this.
First,
I'm going to open up the text document.
And there's our text.
And as we move through it,
you can see how at the
beginning of the document,
it's opening and doing the load
variables on the text document,
and it's pulling in the information,
and then basically on the movie instance,
inside of the main timeline,
it's moving and saying,
apply variable one,
or text one to the text block.
And so you're just kinda adding in
the text every time you move around.
And all the text is just
held in the root timeline.
And if you were doing
something like this,
you could easily use Live Stage to
pull the variables out and use
them in some other form or alter
them or do anything with them.
But for this example,
this is just a simple way to do it.
And so let's change the doc--
change the document slightly.
Let's say in the home page, let's say--
say my new page,
and then we're going to do like, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
We'll just do a bunch of text.
Save.
Dink.
OK.
We close this.
We open it back up, and there it is.
And it's that fast and easy to use.
So instead of doing this
big XML formatting and
worrying about all that,
this is just the fast, easy,
simple way just to get texting quick.
And you can use this
dynamically to control,
say, what images you're going to load,
or what movie in a movie
you're going to use,
or anything like that.
And you can call that flash
track inside a live stage,
and it can actually pull in
and tell the tracks what to be.
And you can use it in your Q script.
So it's a real simple way to
get dynamic information in.
I hope that seems easy for everybody.
OK.
So that takes me to my links.
Now, I put these links up on my--on a
little subsection of our website
but I don't know if that's
OK but it may still be there,
it may not still be there
by the time we get out here.
But the Flash 5 tutorial
and samples basically,
those are--those are three
great sites to go to,
axcrypt.org and Ultrashok and FlashKit.
I mean, if you go to those sites,
since we're using Flash 5,
we're talking about--it's had years
and years of buildup for people
putting .fla files up there that you
can just look at and learn from and
so those are tremendous resources to
use which I'm hoping that as we go
further with QuickTime interactivity
that we will gain larger-- Yeah.
--amounts of tutorials and just sample
coding files that are uploaded on the
web and that we can go to to look at for
like live stage and things like that.
And there's not--not that there
isn't those are--there already but
to have the magnitude of even those
three sites and then we're just
coming three Flash sites right there
is that you could go--we could have
a ton more and really advance this.
And then I have basically Hot Scripts,
which most people already know
from if they're doing PHP and
ASP and stuff and looking at other
people's scripts and using open
source PHP and things like that.
Which they actually have a Flash--I think
they have Flash tutorial links and
FLAs that you can download there too
as well to learn from to see how you
can hit a database and that kind of
thing if you want to really make your
QuickTime do some amazing things.
QuickTime.org has some great ones.
Obviously,
Stagedoor at TullyHip is the place to go.
There's the simple URL for
the Apple MediaSkins.
EZedia has some great tutorials on using
QTI to do some interactivity with too,
so you should check that out if
you're moving through and looking
for different applications to use.
I can't stress enough,
I think TullyHip is leading the way as
far as really producing professional
tool to do the most advanced work.
Then Inspiration,
which is a site that we did called MOVTV,
which basically all it was
done for is to inspire people.
We did that back in 2001,
so don't give me too much of
a hard time for how it looks.
What I was trying to accomplish with that
site was trying to inspire people to say,
"Well, you know, I can skin something,
but what can I do beyond that,
or what can I do with that?" And so that
site is really built inside of QuickTime.
And basically some example
files like a clock.
A clock necessarily doesn't
work perfectly all the time,
so I need to update it.
But it's still a fun site to look at and
I still like some of the looks of some
of the visuals and flash work done in it.
And then QuickTimers.org,
which is like tons of examples
there for just interesting
interactivity and everything.
And then TotallyHip Showcase,
which they have a great showcase
that shows all the most of the
best material that I've ever seen
done in QuickTime Interactivity.
And then we have a couple
of design resources.
I just want to throw these in because
I really want to see the level
brought beyond where we are now.
And I think it really
could go a long ways.
And if you're surfing around
looking at the best Flash sites,
you're going to be inspired to
create the best QuickTime sites.
And so I really think
that looking at Linked Up,
which is a great resource,
you see people throwing new
stuff up there all the time.
And whenever any big design firm or
anybody that's doing advanced work really
updates a look of a site or something,
they throw it on there.
And then you have Designs Kinky,
which is necessarily not known
as the best resource site,
but I really like it just because the
people that choose the material that
gets posted up in their news section,
they update it every day.
Talking about where people have updated
a design site or something like that.
You can really get some
great inspiration there.
And SurfStation, which is a larger design
portal kind of site,
which we've really seen a huge
increase in design portal sites.
So if--I've only chosen three.
There's so many.
If you go to like Stereotypography,
I think it is, you can choose and it can
pull like kind of like--
pulls in information from
all these different sites so
you can keep it in one place.
That is it for me.
Oh, okay, great.
Yeah, I can do that.
Switch back to...
Back then we were doing
jumbled imagery and stuff,
which was kind of trendy,
so bear with me.
And then we have the launch thing here,
which we did our little Q logo,
which was kind of fun.
So here's MOV TV,
which I really like the same look.
I'm probably going to do like
MOV TV 2 or something like that,
and just kind of play around
and take this further.
But you have indicators like drag.
So this is the drag.
And of course, I mean,
it was really funny because
when we got this up,
and it was on Designs Kinky
and all these kinds of sites,
and it was linked.
And people were like, wow,
I can't believe this.
And then all these flash designers,
they were like, oh, my gosh.
didn't jump in and start building,
which I'm--
Missed the point completely because
that's what it was there for.
These are different examples.
Some of them are kind of extreme.
Here's my little about.
Basically these buttons
launch other QuickTime movies.
The about has a little content
and a little thing there.
It's kind of twisted because
you can actually turn text and
flash and everything so you
can do some really wacky stuff
and really be creative with it.
Then this was an ad to favorites,
which probably still works.
I don't know though,
this was made a while back,
so I'm not sure if that's
going to still work.
Experiments.
What's so funny about this is that...
I like to just play around and do
some crazy stuff and I thought,
"What is the craziest calculator
I can make?" And this is it.
And most of the time, I mean,
this is way bigger than the 640x480,
so most people never even
see this stuff down here.
So, well, not that most people
even use 640x480 anymore,
but anyway, on some laptops and stuff,
it's hard to see because
you can't really,
you know, it's not like a web
page where you scroll,
so you can't go further than that.
But this does some
simple math and things.
So, wee, broke.
Okay.
I didn't put very much
error handling in there.
I wasn't really that
concerned at the time.
And then this is like a surf bar.
This takes you to
different sites and things.
So, and then these are friends
of ours that have sites that,
and this was just,
this was a different concept.
I was just like, well,
what can we make useful?
And so, I was thinking, ah, a surf bar.
It's just basically a links bar that
just kind of floats above everything.
and Alex Ogle, Alex Ogle, Alex Ogle,
Alex Ogle,
Click on the web browser and it will
show you a web page in the background.
This is a design company
and it's really great.
That's an example there.
Then we have a floating ball.
Basically what this does is it uses
I wanted to show something around,
so I needed an excuse
to make it interactive,
so I made it a clock.
It looks like your system clock
and just kind of feeds it back in.
It shows the seconds and
everything and then it has the
year and everything in there.
[Transcript missing]
That's a movie TV.
And then, I'll show you this too.
One minute.
I'll just go to my website real quick.
Oops.
We actually have a QuickTime version
of our site coming out soon,
so it should be interesting.
We're trying to move all the same
content over and trying to keep the
design active throughout everything.
Let's see,
let's go to the creative section.
I'm sorry I have to go through
this because I can't remember
my exact URL for launching this,
but here's the beautiful mistake player.
This is a custom cut player for a band.
This is all pulling in dynamically.
[Transcript missing]
You can move through there.
I took some of these photos at a
concert and it was kind of fun.
And then music videos,
which this is the kind of shotgun
way of loading in multiple movies.
I mean,
you can click on both of these and you
can see the progress bars coming down,
which and then I can still go back
to like tour dates and check that.
So, there it is.
So, I can sit there and read
while it's downloading.
I mean, it's a very simple concept,
but it's just like tabs in Safari is
how I explain it to people.
Because if I want to load ten pages
up all at the same time so that I can
review them after they're already loaded,
which doesn't really matter much because
we're all on high bandwidth anyway,
but for the slower connection people,
it's really great because
you can load everything in.
You can just read for a while
or do whatever it takes to
allow the time to go by.
Because we're all set on slow bandwidth,
and we've watched movies
just load and load and load.
And you thought,
can I click something else,
or can I open up another window?
And this is just an
inherent way to do that.
Then we of course have MOVTV on
our site and everything.
But I think that's about it.
I hope everybody enjoyed
viewing that stuff.